---
categories: [inspirations]
title: 2014, A retrospective in music
layout: post
---

I started last year a fun experiment. I decided to collect some tracks that
would have been important to me during the year and which would be linked to my
story of the year. I quickly wanted to limit myself during this process in
order to keep the most proeminent emotions and not to build a collection of 30
tracks. It helped me retrace the year. It made me think about it.

I always liked the length limitation of vinyls. Back in the days, album were
also designed to have that limitation and you could really feel how it
influenced the construction of the album. The original [LP
record](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LP_record) had a maximum playing time of
nearly 45 minutes, or 22 minutes by side. I decided to take this restriction
and add another one: Only 4 tracks by side. That gave me a framework and a
constraint which enabled me to focus myself on the most important phases I went
through during the year. I also try to focus on tracks I discovered during the
year. It's not a hard limitation, but a soft one. Some tracks I only discovered
during the year cannot express the feeling I want to express.

Without further ado, here is my 2014 retrospective.

2014 retrospective: "Mont-Royal LP"

<iframe width="100%" height="450" scrolling="no" frameborder="no" src="https://w.soundcloud.com/player/?url=https%3A//api.soundcloud.com/playlists/69280668%3Fsecret_token%3Ds-aA2ko&amp;auto_play=false&amp;hide_related=false&amp;show_comments=true&amp;show_user=true&amp;show_reposts=false&amp;visual=true"></iframe>

Side 1:

- Pachanga Boys - Black Naga (Hippie Dance)
- Flore - Numen (POLAAR)
- Suuns - Music won't save you (Secretly Canadian)
- Kool & The Gang - Summer Madness (Polygram)

Side 2:

- Flore - Random (POLAAR)
- Parquet Courts - Ducking & Dodging (What's Your Rupture?)
- Run The Jewels - Love Again (Akinyele Back) (feat. Gangsta Boo) (Mass Appeal)
- The Beatles - Tomorrow Never Knows (Parlophone)

The [2013 retrospective is still available on
SoundCloud](https://soundcloud.com/marcw/sets/lapsane-2013/s-3EG1M).
